Question Link : https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-duplicate-number/

Naive Approach: 

    Time Complexity : O(n * logn)

Sort the array and find if adjacent elements are equal. But this changes the array which violates the condition.

Efficient Method 1:

    Time Complexity : O(n)

    Space Complexity : O(1)

Loop over array elements and increment that value mod (n+1) index element. 

So the duplicate element valued index will be incremented multiple times.

Now take maximum element in the array and it's index will give the duplicate element.

Now change back array to it's original position using a[i] = a[i]%(n+1).

So though we modified array intermediately we got back the original array.

    class Solution {
    public:
        int findDuplicate(vector<int>& a) {
            int res = 0,n = a.size();
            for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
                int temp = a[i]%(n+1);
                a[temp] += n+1;
            }
            int max_ele=0,max_index=-1;
            for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
                if(max_ele < a[i]){
                    max_ele = a[i];
                    max_index = i;
                }
            }
            for(int i=0;i<n;i++)
                a[i] %= n+1;
            return max_index;
        }
    };



Efficient Method 2:

    Time Complexity : O(n)

    Space Complexity : O(1)

Using Floyd Tortoise and Hale Algorithm

It's a two pointer based technique where you use a slow pointer and fast pointer and when both are equal cycle is detected.

But to find which element is actually responsible bring back slow pointer to first and now move both at same speed until you get a intersection.

    class Solution {
    public:
        int findDuplicate(vector<int>& a) {
            int tortoise = 0, hare = 0;
            while(1){
                tortoise = a[tortoise];
                hare = a[a[hare]];
                if(tortoise == hare)
                    break;
            }
            tortoise = 0;
            while(tortoise != hare){
                tortoise = a[tortoise];
                hare = a[hare];
            }
            return tortoise;
        }
    };

This is preferred as it explicitly mentioned you aren't allowed to modify the array.

So if it is like read-only array then only this method is correct else either of the above methods are correct.

